Hello, my name is Alicia García Sastre and I am a Customer Success Specialist focusing on ISE. Today, we are going to talk about how to install ISE on Azure and we will do this through the GUI through Azure Portal. We will go quickly over the platforms that ISE can be installed on and then a live demo to show you the installation and we will finish it up with some best practISEs and known limitations.

ISE nodes can be run in a variety of platforms including physical appliances, virtual machines and also public cloud instances. You can mix and match these instance types and have nodes installed in different platforms in your deployment and also have, of course, different sizes for your nodes. Hence, you could have, for example, a hybrid deployment with some nodes on-prem and some nodes in Azure, for example.

And it is possible to install ISE on Azure platform since ISE 3.2 version. What are some of the benefits of installing ISE on the cloud and more specifically on Azure? First of all, you gain flexibility. You can maintain critical functions on-prem while centralizing administration in the cloud and also give you a great opportunity to scale if you need to increase your deployment.

Regarding DevOps, you will be able to use zero-touch provisioning and automated orchestration through APIs. You will be able to enable access for users, devices and manage it from anywhere within any consoles through APIs. So now let's dive into the demo on how to install ISE on Azure.

As a prerequisite, there are several resources that you will need as resource groups, virtual networks, subnets and SSH keys, etc. that we are going to use in our ISE deployment. For a complete list of the resources you will need, please check this guide.

Once these ones are sorted out, we can go ahead and install ISE. And for this, we are going to go here, create a resource. And here you can see that we have two flavors of ISE, two different ways of installing ISE.

We have a virtual machine and an Azure application. You can deploy ISE using one of these two options, and there are no differences in cost depending on the option that you use, and also the features are going to be the same. We recommend using the Azure application because it comes with the following advantages.

First of all, Azure application is a more intuitive way. You will have a wizard in the GUI that will guide you through all the options and you can check the boxes that you need and have your ISE configured. An additional thing to have into account is that with the Azure application, you can choose the size of the disk that you are going to have in your ISE node.

You can choose between 300 gigabytes and 2,400 gigabytes. If you are configuring the VM, there is a limitation in which you cannot choose the size of the disk and you will have to install it with 300 gigabytes and then go back to it and modify this value because 600 is the minimum value that you can use on a production environment for an ISE node. Also, you will be able to choose the specific size of the Azure VMs that you want, and additionally, you can configure a static private IP at the initial configuration.

So let's go ahead with the option one with Azure application. We can choose here between ISE 3.2 and ISE 3.3. Let's go with ISE 3.2, which is the recommended version, and here we can select the resource group that we have created for this. And here we have the available VM sizes that we can use for ISE.

For a PSN, it's recommended to use one of these two because they are compute-optimized and they are especially thought for this role. So D8S can be used for an extra small PSN, and then D4S is the one that is a good fit for PAN and MNT nodes. So we go ahead and we select 600 gigabytes of memory.

Here we select the services that we want, and then the password that we want for admin. Before we click on create, we can see here a summary of the settings that we have selected for our ISE node. It will take around 30 minutes for the ISE instance to be created.

When the installation is done, we can go to the resource and we can see here the IP address of our new ISE node. If we go there, we are going to be able to log in, and the first time we log in, we will be asked to change the password. Okay, so now we are going to create an ISE node using the virtual machine method.

So we go here to create a resource, we select ISE, and this method using a virtual machine is best used when you need to use one of the additional settings that are available through this workflow, or maybe you don't want to use the Azure portal, the GUI, to deploy ISE, so you can use automation for this. We are going to do it here through the Azure portal anyways, so we are going ahead and creating an ISE 3.2. So we have here selected ISE 3.2 already, and here we can select different sizes. These ones that are shown on this menu, they are all supported by ISE, so we can select one of them, and you could select here more sizes, but remember that not all these sizes are supported by ISE.

Here, very important, we need to change the name of this admin to ISE admin, and in SSH public key source, we can get one of the ones that we already created before this video. Here in disks, we are going to use the default values and go to networking. We will put here the virtual network and subnet that we need, and also the public IP.

It's important to have a public IP address in order to receive posture feeds and other feeds in your ISE. We will click in advance, and here it's important that we select enable user data, and we can go to the guide. I will give you the link at the end of the video, and here, when we go to the section that says create an ISE instance using Azure virtual machine, it's following all the steps that I am explaining in the video, and it's telling us which specific fields we need to populate here in the user data.

We can copy them and paste them, but as you can see, we need to do some replacement of the values, so I already have this prepared, and I'm just going to paste it there. Perfect. You have to be very careful here with the syntax, because these fields are not validated when they are entered.

You can create some tags, but we are going to go ahead and review and create. And now we need around 30 minutes for this ISE instance to be available for use. After some time, the deployment is complete, and then I can go to the resource.

I can see here everything I configured. Because we installed it through the virtual machine method, we will need to do an extra step. We will need to stop the virtual machine and reassign the disk space.

So we will go to disk, modify this value to 600, which is the default one. Lastly, I wanted to cover some best practices and limitations that you need to take into account. First of all, it's very important to highlight again that the default admin user is called ISE admin now, and as you saw for the installation using the virtual machine, we need to explicitly call it this way.

For the installation with Azure application, this is coming by default. Also, in order to connect through CLI of the ISE nodes, we are going to be using an SSH key-based authentication. We cannot use username and password like before anymore.

So for this, we are going to have a private key or PEM file that we need to store securely. Be sure not to lose it, or you will be losing access to the CLI of ISE. It's important also to notice that after every installation, it's going to be required to change the password of the ISE admin when we log in through GUI, and also that the upgrade workflow is not available in Cisco ISE on Microsoft Azure, so we will be only able to do fresh installs, and then we can carry out a backup and restore of our configuration data.

It's no problem to restore the configuration of another node that, for example, had on-prem. To get more information about this, I recommend to see this upgrade guidelines for hybrid deployments guide that you can access through the QR code. Lastly, I wanted to give you some great resources in case you want to go into more detail.

On the top left, you can find a very good guide for this installation, and the ISE performance and scalability guide is also a great resource in case you want to check more about the sizes of the nodes and the roles you can assign to them. Thank you so much for watching this video today, and see you in the next one.
